@settings {
font-size: 100;
}

# Authors

## Alexander Uzikov(frontend on React, part of backend on Google Firebase)

## Nikolay Palchikov(machine learning, backend on Python)

# Description

This project is an implementation of a website for a movie fan. Currently it allows to search movie by a quote and keeps a history of user requests.
The deployed production build can be found here: https://todo-6ba5c.web.app \
Feel free to register your own account or use test@test.com 87654321 to log in.

## Implementation details

### Frontend

I build a SPA(single page application) with React. The public folder contains the only HTML file - index.html. This file contains `<div id="root"></div>`, which is a placeholder for the code generated by React.\
React is a library which allows to build a tree of "components" - building block of the page. The code related to components is stored in src subfolder. The main component - App - is rendered in index.js file. The App component is wrapped in Redux Provider(provides app-wide state) and in BrowserRouter(allows to build SPA). Before continuing with description of the component tree, I will briefly explain main concepts of the Router and Redux.\
Redux is a library to manage app-wide state. The main concept of Redux is to have one central data store in the app. Components set subscriptions to the central store, which notifies them in case of updates and provides them slices of state. The state is not manipulated directly from the components. Instead, components dispatch actions - javascript objects with information related to the update. These objects are recieved be Reducers - pure functions defining how to change the state of the app with the information from actions. Another related library I use is Redux Toolkit. This library allows to split the code of the store into several files, each related to one part of the global state. In my case, I have 3 logical pieces of the global state: authentification(described in store/auth.js), URLs for APIs(store/token.js), history of user requests(store/auth.js) and a file with secret token which I do not publish on github(store/token_secret.js). The file store/index.js combines slices into a global state. \
SPACE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

The React code is stored in src directory. In App.js routing logic, depending on presence of authentification token, is written.\
At the moment of writing this description, the components directory consists of 7 folders: forms, functions, hooks, layout, pages, simpleTodos, UI.\

- "forms" includes desctiption of 3 forms, related to authentification: Registration, Login, ChangePassword.
- "functions" has functions which might be useful in different parts of the app and which are not hook. Currently these are validation functions for password, name, email.
- "hooks" consists of custom hooks. Currently it is a hook for user input(logic related to providing feedback to the user during filling in forms) and an http hook(not finished yet).
- "Layout" describes general layout of pages after authorization. Now is a Navigation Bar at the top of the page and main content.
- "pages" includes different pages of the website(Login, ChangePassword, CreateProfile, main page with ToDoList).
- "simpleTodos" has logic of ToDo page. Currently it has 2 main elements: AddTodo and ToDoList, containing ToDo items.
- "UI" keeps general UI components like Card and Button.

### State

I use Redux slices for storing app-wise state. The current state includes login and logout functionality(which could also be implemented with React Context efficiently). However, I chose Redux since in this case adding new global states to the app becomes easier.

### Routing

I use React Router v6 for simulation multipage website. Each page except for login consists of navigation bar(described in MainNavigation.js) and page content. Page contents for different pages are described in /components/pages

### Registration and login-state persistance

I use local storage to keep cridentials of logged in person even after reloading of the page.
